Email cin@lists.cinelerra-gg.org 4 help.
For usage help, refer to the following:
  https://cinelerra-gg.org/download/CinelerraGG_Manual.pdf
  http://g-raffa.eu/Cinelerra/HOWTO/basics.html
.
2021 November changes of note:
  Libaom has been updated to v3.2.0 and may be faster.
  Procedure to build for Android tablet/phone using Termux
   is available and documented with additional tweaks.
2021 October changes of note:
  Hungarian automated-google translation has been added.
  Long existing bug when using Fade in/out in the Titler 
   plugin when there is an alpha channel in use is fixed.
  Added new render formats of Cineform, DPX, and mxf.
  In AppImage, the plugins are no longer loaded every time.
2021 September New Features of note:
  Improvements have been made to the LV2 plugin code that
   makes it more robust and prevents crashes on startup.
  Additional 9 Video icons in the Resources window added.
.
2021 August New Features of note:
  FFmpeg has been upgraded to 4.4 to include new plugins.
  Speed PerCent plugin for easily changing video speed
   is now available.
  FAST_SPEED and SLOW_SPEED variables to personalize your
   playback speed have been added.
.
2021 July New Features of note:
  Libraries x264, x265, and libaom have been upgraded.
  YUV Colorspace 601 and 2020 have been split into more
   available options of 601 NTSC/PAL and 2020 NCL/CL.
.
2021 June New Features of note:
  High fps rendering formats added for over 60 fps.
  Upgrade of libjpeg-turbo to 2.1.0.
  Additional mxf + other rendering formats added.
.
2021 May New Features of note:
  Context Help has been added using hotkey Alt/h by Georgy.  The
   help page will come up in your web browser tab for the item 
   most relevant to where you used Alt/h on a menu, plugin, button,
   icon, transition, window, or tooltip.  For additional information:
   /https://cinelerra-gg.org/download/CinelerraGG_Manual/Troubleshooting_Help.html
.
2021 March New Features of note:
  AppImage is the method of distributing new releases;
   Newer distros use: CinGG-20210331-x86_64.AppImage 
   Older distros use: CinGG-20210331-x86_64-older_distros.AppImage
  There are 2 new plugins: Posterize and Timelapse Helper.
.
2021 1st Quarter New Features of note:
  The manual can now be used in HTML format besides PDF.
  Autosave backups optional feature in Preferences.
  Additional FFmpeg video/audio render formats available.
  Aspect ratio and Interlace improvements are in.
  Batch Render menu now has hidden feature to prevent mistakes.
  Openjpeg upgraded from 2.3.1 to 2.4.0.
.
2020 New Features of note:
  Drag select and deselect edits was added on the timeline.
  Tile mixers allows for designating a rectangular area.
  Motion plugin improvements by SGE for better results.
  Faster transition playing with cache + drag capable.
  Bump Autos new feature; especially useful for speed.
  Language preference now in Settings->Preferences.
  Added drag speed highlighting for easier usage of auto.
  Option and shortcut to select multiple edits.
  Align Timecodes for various timecodes/stamps is available.
  Subtitles can be generated in either SRT, SUB, or uDVD form.
  Mix masters make it easy to use multicam mode on timeline.
  Ganging modes added for DAW-like editing of channels.
  Rotate plugin has been modernized and improved.
  Audio track height button added, separate from video height.
  New patchbay toggle to vary individual vertical track height.
  Potential Performance improvements added.
  New way of creating and using a stack of Effects.
  Additional ShapeWipe transitions are now available.
  BoxBlur plugin allows forjust blurring an area.
  Videoscope is now on the Compositor and Viewer.
  Several new Shape Wipe transitions are included.
  New ColorSpace plugin to convert color space/range.
  Updated 17 thirdparty libraries to keep up to date.
  Rewrote and replaced OGG/Theora/Vorbis file codec.
  PulseAudio option is now built in as audio choice.
  Updated reference Manual using LaTeX now complete.
  File by Reference capability now available.
.
2019 New Features of note:
  Edit EDLs feature added for easily editing nested EDLs.
  OTA TV support for Happauge 1657 Dual USB device recording.
  Audio improvements added for playback/speed/sampling.
  Spanish, Russian, French, and German translations updated.
  Transcode 1:1 added to convert to a different format.
  Compositor zoom using the wheel & panning is available.
  Scaling for any size monitor now available in Preferences.
  Improved and new transitions and plugins to include:
    Tracer, Crop & Position, Compressor Multi, Alpha, Foreground.
  Libraries updated for FFmpeg, libvpx, x264, x265, and Dav1d.
  Major improvements for Masking in the Compositor.
  Camera and Projector menu and usage improvements added.
  Hardware acceleration capabilities added to include:
    nvenc for nvidia boards, vdapu and vaapi hardware, + cuda.
  Additional options for Preview mode in Resources window.
  Named layouts for easier identification purposes.
  Capability for ShuttlePro/Xpress usage has been added.
  Insert Mixers for multiple cameras general improvements added.
.
2018 New Features of note:
  Inter-View mode / Identifying Source Targets added.
  Cut and Paste behavior added; right mouse button on clip.
  Grouping and ungrouping possibilities in Arrow mode,
  Color titles and media with changable colors and alpha.
  Change thumbnail size, vicon memory usage and color mode.
  Preview window zoom scale for vicons in Resources window.
  Sketcher plugin newly added to "pencil in" lines/curves.
  Window layout save and load feature added - total of 4.
  Title plugin has unlimited number of characters allowed.
  Histogram Bezier bug fixes and some improvements applied.
  Trim Feature enhancement with drag handle and split look.
  Dynamic keyframes implemented so can use large numbers.
  Color correction+others highlighted with expand subtrees.
  Motion plugins now have more visible stippled lines.
  Neophyte theme and German translations compliments of Olaf.
  Bins/Folders added for organizing media.
  Preview capability with Mouse Over and vicon tweaks.
  Find in Resources, User title, and Show edit options added.
  Added Display packed icons and Display icon list in Resources.
  LV2 Audio plugins have been hooked in to include Calf, X42, +.
  Unbundled build scripts are now available and tested a few.
  OpenCV FindObj updated and StyleObj, PuzzleObj added.
  Perpetual Session preference and 1 extra backup.
  Speed automation will now update the track duration.
  Can now Paste Silence a single frame at hairline cursor.
  Audio waveform partial image will show in the Viewer.
  Loop play added in Viewer and Compositor.
  Mouse play action implemented in Viewer/Compositor.
  Nested EDLs are now available and automatically render.
  Raw Video (yuv/rgb) and raw audio available.
  Audio waveform icons, color coded, in Resources Media.
  Allowance for piped file usage has been added.
  2 Pass option for VP9/webm added.
.
2017 New Features of note:
  Many plugin icons and other new icons modernized by Sam.
  Mixer Viewer for multiple media/cameras was added.
  Blade cut and hard edges are now available.
  Snap/Cut editing and snap while dragging stickiness.
  New plugins of CriKey, Motion51 and HistEq added.
  Perspective/BlueBanana/C41 plugins were fixed/improved.
  Grabshot/Snapshot new options for screen grab/shot.
  Colorspace & Color range improvements for BT601/709/2020.
  HV7 mods merged in to include X11 Direct playback.
  Alternative shortcut keys for computers without numpad.
  Search box in the Resources window to narrow choices.
  Proxy Editing added to Settings pulldown.
  OpenCV optional compile with 4 plugins now available.
  Shortcuts.html added to shell cmds icon for easy view.
  Faststart option added for Mp4 and QT ffmpeg format.
  Probe Order preference added for flexibility.
  Dcraw program updated to latest Coffin version.
  Zoom bar in compositor handles any size.
  Upgraded FFMPEG to 3.3 + other 3rd party libraries.
  Title plugin major changes to include:
   ColorPicker added, fast Font selection,
   Stroker for fonts added, BC_FONT_PATH.
   Drag with 9 different handles, Background
     video, individual character attributes of
     Color, Size, Font, Underline, Bold, Italic,
     Caps, Blink, Alpha, Nudge, Sup(erscript,
     subscript), and PNG inclusion + Rt. Click.
   Now handles 3071 characters and a count provided.
  Bluray creation improved & allows for non-root usage.
  Unicode characters can be put into textbox.
  Smooth Lines create near-perfect circles/curves.
